# Unlock It

Silly and stupid program to try to solve puzzles in the game "Unlock It - A fun
logic puzzle" by MetalPop Games. Search for it in your app store; I only know
it's available for Android in the Google Play Store.

I am not affiliated with MetalPop in any way. I enjoy playing the game, but it
also tickles the part of my brain that wants to teach programs to play games for
me.

## Gameplay

The Unlock It board has 10 squares (5 high, 2 across). The top left square has a
button on it. You must turn it green and press it to win the level. Each level
is filled with blocks except for one empty space. A block can slide into the
empty space, or can be rotated 180degrees. The green button must be uncovered to
press it, i.e. the empty space must be at the top-left to solve the puzzle. Down
the side of the board are little pins; all pins must be extended to turn the
button green. Each block has up to 3 slots on each side to receive these pins;
the slots can go all the way through or just be a short recess. Inside the slots
in some blocks are pins; if a block contains a pin that is pressed up against
the pin on the side, the pin cannot be extended. If a pin is shorter than its
slot it can slide back and forth in that slot.

Short pins can only be slid back and forth inside their block. Long pins can be
slid outside of their block only if there is a block present on the other side
with a slot that can receive the pin. This means a long pin cannot slide out
into the empty space. A block with a pin sticking out of it or into it cannot be
moved or rotated.

## Moves

Each level has a goal to be solved in the minimum number of moves. Sliding a
block counts as a move, as does rotating it in place. Sliding pins, including
extending and retracting the side pins, are free moves.
